#summary Design Overview


= Details =

A complex structure should be use to govern all actions of relevant thinking beings, from the simplest insects to intelligent/sentient humanoids and anything more advanced.

The SAME structure should be used for all world entities.

The structure should categorize all typical goals of characters, monsters, and fauna of the average fantasy-themed world. The structure should be adaptable and scalable to adequately describe the actions of various entities.

This will be achieved through a per-entity recording of any inherent weapons, what types of gear, and how much, may be carried, what intelligence-limited restrictions are placed on the capabilities of the entity, what goals or classes the entity is capable of pursuing.

Each goal will be divided up in to classes within that goal, all of which can be used to achieve that goal to some extent or effectiveness.  Each class will have associated actions to perform to advance that class, and each action in turn will depend on various attributes of the entity.

The goals pursued will be based on characters' global goal weightings, which can change, slowly, over time based on the successes and failures, which should in turn be based on the character's suitability towards those goals, as well as the environment's suitability.

The actions chosen to advance ones' goals are based on the class skills they employ, and the characters' preferences for certain classes, which are more quickly mutable based on successful and unsuccessful previous attempts.

The methods and choices employed for completing each action in pursuit of a goal are based on character preferences, character attributes, and gear available, and are very dynamic.

Many character preferences can change quickly as well, while attributes are not affected by feedback, and change only over time, as with age, or not at all.

Further, each entity will maintain a complex history structure to aid in the variation of goals, classes, actions, methods, and preferences.  This history structure will remember the actions taken in pursuit of goals, and the character's suitability for that action, the success or failure of the action, and any skill advancement made as a result of the action.

Lists will also be kept of combat, maintaining:
 * lists of targets, the ability of the combatant at the time of engagement, and the outcome.
 * lists of social interactions, remembering how other characters responded, how effective they were in combat, whether they were friend or foe, etc.
 * lists of trade items, their values, what we know of them
 * lists of world regions, areas, etc., and what can be found there, what areas adjoin